article/acm/notes.md, before:

j## ToDo

#### Email to other authors:
- Confirm institutional ties of authors and their names in English.
- note to other authors that we have many footnotes.
- ask to other authors if they miss citations in some parts (e.g. first sentences of intro) or is it ok to rely in our own knowledge.
- maybe make a PDF with the scripts as another SI document.
- ask to confirm that music meter is used in Am. English.

#### In the last reading
- place figures in best places.
- remove repetition of what has been seen before (recaps).
- join (or at least enhance their relation) the sections of reverberation.
- remove piece names and massa citation (e.g. in the beginning of the third section)
- move localization and reverberation to the third section or make an explicit account of the hybrid aspect off them.
- maybe explain what is a measure (and maybe what is a bar) in the rhythm section.
- maybe change the order of some sections. E.g. put tonal harmony before atonal harmony, put motifs right before tuning, etc.
- place dodecafonism outside the discussion about atonal harmony?
- enhance the conclusions section (maybe remove information that might be considered spurious).
- read listings.pdf again to ensure everything is ok.
- see if bibliography is ok.
- check 1-9 markers.
- double check the captions.

###### Code (and musical pieces)
- review the code from each section, for the figures, aux and that render music. Make an additional EP routine.
Put all the code in a new, better organized repository.
- give better names to musical pieces and use English.
- add license and authorship header in the massa python and latex scripts.
- migrate code from some pieces of the third section into the sections scripts.
- maube make an additional pdf with the code.
- check what really is in JS and native Python (footnote 2).

#### In the submission
- in the submission, say that we can write a vocabulary with definitions and alternative terms.
- say that we can move some of the article to another supporting information, if it is too long
- state in the cover letter that we can reduce the size of the article if needed, e.g. by describing the musical pieces/usage in an supporting information document.
- check if figures has to be B&W.

##### Context of the article (mainly reflects in the introduction) 
FINISHED!

###### Notes in music (most issues seem related to this section)
FINISHED!

### Already OK
- Obtain grant numbers (e.g. FAPESP from Chu) OK
- Ask Chu not to collapse multiple lines into one. OK
- Are there boundaries on sound wavelengths in micro or macro scales? OK?
- enhance first figures. Change espectrum for spectrum and , for . in figure 3. OK
- write about the literature (from the appendix of the dissertation). OK
- homogenize capitalization in section titles and inline references and replace Subsection~\ref... by Section~\ref... OK
- change Musical use to Musical usages. OK
- put references and citations in ?? OK
- choose nice settings for the unpublished document (e.g. journal, year). OK
- write a section on vocabulary, synonyms and ambiguities? Maybe put it as a disclaimer in the conclusions and state that the section could not be at the introduction because rll the terms were not introduced yet. (sample/sampling frequency/rate; harmonic vs component; harmony (field vs chords vs equilibrium of elements); note as pitch as a pitch+duration as pitch+duration+timbre as an specific note of a score, music or instrument; timbre of instrument, of player, of a register, etc; tremolo as vibrato in some instruments (e.g. piano); OK
- change velocity to speed in the discussion about the Doppler effect.
- write a supporting information file with a table with all the scripts and related equations (search multline), musical pieces and figures and important tables. OK
- make an index in the beginning of each section or of the article. E.g. spatial location or spatialization is not even cited until the subsection is reached. Maybe make the index as an appendix or put it in the introduction, relating concepts, equations and implementations (files and line numbers). OK because of listings.pdf
- state in the introduction that, in fact, most pieces in massa are not very traditional in their sonorities and discourse. OK
- review equation layouts. OK
- write about the extreme quality of massa synthesis which uses 64bits per sample, updates on the synthesis parameters sample-by-sample, and lookup tables with arbitrary size and sample precision.
Make explicit that there are a lot of discussion among specialists on the impact of sample rate and bit depth, for example, and that music software often uses 16 or 24bit bit depth and audio chunks to make synthesis lighter. OK 
- make a disclaimer in the introduction or the fourth chapter that there are many theoretical framework for music and that most often there is not a single way to express or characterize musical structures.
Therefore, the article contains many adjectives such as "often" "commonly" "frequently" and they might be even more numerous if we wanted to be very precise. OK
- decide on lambda or delta for inter-sample duration. OK
- use mass (music and audio in sample sequences) acronym instead of massa. OK
- put the right name of the peal in the cyclic arcs section. OK
- redo the lucas series calculations (check if in massa, add scripts for it and other sequences). OK
- make explicit that the notes in music section does not benefit so much by expressions as equations as the other sections, but it is a very condensed presentation of musical theory and each subsection has algorithms and music in the massa toolbox. OK
- Make explicit that one merit of the article is the effort to sum up musical theory, many more discussions can be easily added but we believe that from the article on, the reader can look into other articles and books. OK
- account for spectral music composition and other post-serial techniques. OK
- better account for serial techniques. OK
- account for sonic textures. OK
- maybe visit denis smalley (spectromorphology of sound). OK
- use of random distributions. OK
- last notes on form after directional and cyclic (ternary, rondo, theme and variations, sonata, etc). OK
- account for phrases and melody construction (check e.g. Schoenberg's Fundamentals of Musical Composition). Put in motifs and larger units OK
- see music composition in wikipedia. OK
- see if meter of metre for metrica musical. OK
- cite formalized music do xenakis. OK
- cite topos of music when stating that the section can be further formalized. OK
- drop _i in T_i unless there is a reason not to.
- replace tan^-1 for arctan

### Vocabulary
- campo harmônico => harmonic field?
- anti-relative => counter-relative? (discussão sobre harmonia funcional)
- associada relative => associated relative? (ver a discussão para mais...)
- medianas cromáticas => cromatic mediant
- tonalidade => key
- homônima => homonymous


### Extra or other works
- check the red book for the notes for new music (especially the sequences). Try to use OEIS for interesting sequences. Make music with arcs using some famous sequences.

Commit message:

temporal brench to move changes to other lap

article/acm/notes.md, after:

j## ToDo

#### Final tasks
- Revise the bibliography
- Revise the Supporting Information
- put the code into a repository accordingly
- cite correctly the link to the repo where the mass is
- put the license header in the files
- review and translate scripts to English
- add note about aux/filters in the listings.tex
- add list of scripts that are not for rendering figures in listings.tex if there are other ones besides iso226

#### Email to other authors:
- Confirm institutional ties of authors and their names in English.
- note to other authors that we have many footnotes.
- ask to other authors if they miss citations in some parts (e.g. first sentences of intro) or is it ok to rely in our own knowledge.
- maybe make a PDF with the scripts as another SI document.
- ask to confirm that music meter is used in Am. English.

#### In the last reading
- place figures in best places.
- remove repetition of what has been seen before (recaps).
- join (or at least enhance their relation) the sections of reverberation.
- remove piece names and massa citation (e.g. in the beginning of the third section)
- move localization and reverberation to the third section or make an explicit account of the hybrid aspect off them.
- maybe explain what is a measure (and maybe what is a bar) in the rhythm section.
- maybe change the order of some sections. E.g. put tonal harmony before atonal harmony, put motifs right before tuning, etc.
- place dodecafonism outside the discussion about atonal harmony?
- enhance the conclusions section (maybe remove information that might be considered spurious).
- read listings.pdf again to ensure everything is ok.
- see if bibliography is ok.
- check 1-9 markers.
- double check the captions.

###### Code (and musical pieces)
- review the code from each section, for the figures, aux and that render music. Make an additional EP routine.
Put all the code in a new, better organized repository.
- give better names to musical pieces and use English.
- add license and authorship header in the massa python and latex scripts.
- migrate code from some pieces of the third section into the sections scripts.
- maube make an additional pdf with the code.
- check what really is in JS and native Python (footnote 2).

#### In the submission
- in the submission, say that we can write a vocabulary with definitions and alternative terms.
- say that we can move some of the article to another supporting information, if it is too long
- state in the cover letter that we can reduce the size of the article if needed, e.g. by describing the musical pieces/usage in an supporting information document.
- check if figures has to be B&W.

##### Context of the article (mainly reflects in the introduction) 
FINISHED!

###### Notes in music (most issues seem related to this section)
FINISHED!

### Already OK
- Obtain grant numbers (e.g. FAPESP from Chu) OK
- Ask Chu not to collapse multiple lines into one. OK
- Are there boundaries on sound wavelengths in micro or macro scales? OK?
- enhance first figures. Change espectrum for spectrum and , for . in figure 3. OK
- write about the literature (from the appendix of the dissertation). OK
- homogenize capitalization in section titles and inline references and replace Subsection~\ref... by Section~\ref... OK
- change Musical use to Musical usages. OK
- put references and citations in ?? OK
- choose nice settings for the unpublished document (e.g. journal, year). OK
- write a section on vocabulary, synonyms and ambiguities? Maybe put it as a disclaimer in the conclusions and state that the section could not be at the introduction because rll the terms were not introduced yet. (sample/sampling frequency/rate; harmonic vs component; harmony (field vs chords vs equilibrium of elements); note as pitch as a pitch+duration as pitch+duration+timbre as an specific note of a score, music or instrument; timbre of instrument, of player, of a register, etc; tremolo as vibrato in some instruments (e.g. piano); OK
- change velocity to speed in the discussion about the Doppler effect.
- write a supporting information file with a table with all the scripts and related equations (search multline), musical pieces and figures and important tables. OK
- make an index in the beginning of each section or of the article. E.g. spatial location or spatialization is not even cited until the subsection is reached. Maybe make the index as an appendix or put it in the introduction, relating concepts, equations and implementations (files and line numbers). OK because of listings.pdf
- state in the introduction that, in fact, most pieces in massa are not very traditional in their sonorities and discourse. OK
- review equation layouts. OK
- write about the extreme quality of massa synthesis which uses 64bits per sample, updates on the synthesis parameters sample-by-sample, and lookup tables with arbitrary size and sample precision.
Make explicit that there are a lot of discussion among specialists on the impact of sample rate and bit depth, for example, and that music software often uses 16 or 24bit bit depth and audio chunks to make synthesis lighter. OK 
- make a disclaimer in the introduction or the fourth chapter that there are many theoretical framework for music and that most often there is not a single way to express or characterize musical structures.
Therefore, the article contains many adjectives such as "often" "commonly" "frequently" and they might be even more numerous if we wanted to be very precise. OK
- decide on lambda or delta for inter-sample duration. OK
- use mass (music and audio in sample sequences) acronym instead of massa. OK
- put the right name of the peal in the cyclic arcs section. OK
- redo the lucas series calculations (check if in massa, add scripts for it and other sequences). OK
- make explicit that the notes in music section does not benefit so much by expressions as equations as the other sections, but it is a very condensed presentation of musical theory and each subsection has algorithms and music in the massa toolbox. OK
- Make explicit that one merit of the article is the effort to sum up musical theory, many more discussions can be easily added but we believe that from the article on, the reader can look into other articles and books. OK
- account for spectral music composition and other post-serial techniques. OK
- better account for serial techniques. OK
- account for sonic textures. OK
- maybe visit denis smalley (spectromorphology of sound). OK
- use of random distributions. OK
- last notes on form after directional and cyclic (ternary, rondo, theme and variations, sonata, etc). OK
- account for phrases and melody construction (check e.g. Schoenberg's Fundamentals of Musical Composition). Put in motifs and larger units OK
- see music composition in wikipedia. OK
- see if meter of metre for metrica musical. OK
- cite formalized music do xenakis. OK
- cite topos of music when stating that the section can be further formalized. OK
- drop _i in T_i unless there is a reason not to.
- replace tan^-1 for arctan

### Vocabulary
- campo harmônico => harmonic field?
- anti-relative => counter-relative? (discussão sobre harmonia funcional)
- associada relative => associated relative? (ver a discussão para mais...)
- medianas cromáticas => cromatic mediant
- tonalidade => key
- homônima => homonymous


### Extra or other works
- check the red book for the notes for new music (especially the sequences). Try to use OEIS for interesting sequences. Make music with arcs using some famous sequences.
